### Reflection on CART 253
#### by Viviana Ema Radu

I've been programming for quite a while, since it was my college major too, and this is far from my first time using JavaScript, but it was my first time using the P5JS library. I think it has a lot of pros and cons when it comes to making little games like the ones we did in this course.

Pros: it's really good at simulations. Since it draws shapes automatically and you can apply most physics imaginable to code in JS to them, it makes for very easy demonstrations on behavior and a good way to create small simple games. It also has a huge sound library to play around with that it would be worth using for that alone.
Cons: I really can't see myself using this for an actual game... Writing everything is twice as long because it has no innate way to cache the sizes of objects, nor when the mouse hovers over objects (when even default JS does!). Even just loading images takes twice as many lines. It also feels hard to imagine it implemented on a web page, since it creates its own canvas that doesn't interact with anything else, and its images can't have links as far as I'm aware(?).

Still, it's a useful tool in its needed scenarios. Maybe I'll use its sound library in the future some more, as I've hardly ever had the chance to work with sound in coding. Looking through the sound references felt crazy to me and I barely even understood anything!

This class was a great way for me to refresh my memory on JavaScript, since I've been coding almost exclusively in C++ for about 2 years now. It was a small challenge to go back to writing raw code and not working with an engine, but p5js made that transition much smoother with how easily you can display everything and keep track of it in the live server.

Overall, I liked how the class was structured to give us more time to get used to P5JS as a resource first and then go into coding basics. Since I was already familiar with coding terms and such, I got to focus on making the most out of each exercise! I also am slowly getting in the habit of committing my code even when working alone. Since I usually worked in groups before, my mindset was always to only submit at the end of the day, or if I've done something substantial, or if I was worried my code would break. Since all we made were little games I never thought of doing it as much. It also helped me get back into the habit of commentating. It's a really important asset to have, since I know first-hand how annoying it is when people don't, trust me!